When an issuer (eg. Circle) mints a stablecoin (USDC), they park a dollar in their reserves as collateral. This collateral earns close to the risk free rate. The question then becomes, is Circle allowed to share this yield with whoever funded the collateral? The short answer is no.

Pretend we live in a world where people earn yield on their stablecoins, paid by the issuer. You have 100 USDC and as it sits, you receive yield in the form of a higher USDC balance. This means at 5% rates, you end one year at a balance of $105 USDC. After one day, you have earned $100 * 5%/365 = .013 USDC.

Your friend needs $100 USD. You have USDC, and want to send it to him. In the time it took to send to your friend, the USDC is gaining in value due to its native yield. Say USDC takes 1 day to arrive at your friend's wallet. This means to send him 100 USDC, you actually have to send him 100 -.013 = 99.987 USDC. The fact that this would happen violates the legal principle of “payment” stablecoins, and makes USDC a security, not a settlement instrument. Stablecoins are designed to function as digital cash, and with this legislation, are legally required to function as digital cash, and must track the underlying asset on a 1:1 basis. If you can’t track it on a 1:1 basis while in settlement flows, it fails the Howey test, and is now a security.

This does not mean all hope is lost for stablecoin holders. In reality, end-users don’t mint USDC by giving Circle their fiat. They give Coinbase / Kraken / Robinhood their fiat, and these exchanges credit their wallets with USDC. The reason Coinbase retracted their support of the CLARITY draft is because the bill goes beyond stablecoin native yield, and states that exchanges cannot distribute “reward” payments for user balances. The wording here is important -- there is a big legal difference between USDC growing its fiat value by sitting in your wallet, and Coinbase paying you 5% annually on your stablecoin balances. Coinbase paying you makes it a marketing cost, not yield on the asset, though they may feel like the same thing. In this scenario, USDC continues to be a payment stablecoin since its value does not change natively. With rewards, your account is just credited with more USDC.

Banks are terrified that Coinbase / Kraken / Robinhood giving users rewards for their balances will cause a mass deposit flight from their 3bps yield savings account. They have claimed this harms community banks (untrue, large consumer banks hound deposits from community banks every day) and that if deposits leave, it threatens the credit lubrication that bank deposits offer the economy (also untrue, money has changed in many ways without compromising credit, and proper digital asset regulation enables new of and access to credit.). Coinbase boasts rewards rates that have moved between 2% to 5%, making your savings account bank deposits earning 0.61% seem dismal. This isn't about stablecoin tech; it's about who controls digital dollar economics in a high-rate world. No wonder the banks are scared.